docs: android NLU explanation (#51)
spokestack/spokestack-website: content/docs/iOS/nlu.md

---
title: NLU on iOS
navId: NLU (iOS)
description: Understanding the iOS NLU API
draft: false
---

> This is a companion to the [NLU concept guide](docs/Concepts/nlu), which discusses the NLU subsystem holistically. Here we'll talk about usage issues specific to the Android client library.

Author: Mmm, pasta.
```suggestion
This is a companion to the [NLU concept guide](docs/Concepts/nlu), which discusses the NLU subsystem holistically. Here we'll talk about usage issues specific to the iOS client library.
```

### Configuration

The Spokestack NLU most commonly uses the following `SpeechConfiguration` properties:

- `nluVocabularyPath`: The bundle path to the model vocabulary
- `nluModelPath`: The bundle path to the nlu model
- `nluModelMetadataPath`: The bundle path to the nlu model metadata

> The following properties are configurable, but should not be changed unless a different NLU model or vocabulary is being used (ie if you're changing this, you already know why you're doing so):

Author: ```suggestion
The following properties are configurable, but should not be changed unless a different NLU model or vocabulary is being used (i.e., if you're changing these, you already know why you're doing so):
```

- `nluTerminatorTokenIndex`
- `nluPaddingTokenIndex`

> - `nluPaddingTokenIndex`

Author: ```suggestion
```

- `nluMaxTokenLength`

## Usage

> As mentioned in the [Getting Started](getting-started) guide, initializing the Spokestack NLU is like inititalizing the TTS component. Both a delegate callback interface and a publisher interface are provided. The call to `classify` is the same for either interface, but the result and `DispatchQueue` that the classification runs on are returned differently.

Author: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the [Getting Started](getting-started) guide, initializing the Spokestack NLU is like initializing the TTS component. Both a delegate callback interface and a publisher interface are provided. The call to `classify` is the same for either interface, but the result and `DispatchQueue` that the classification runs on are handled differently.
```

### 1) Delegate

A delegate interface is as simple as:

```swift
class NLU:  NLUDelegate {

    public let nlu = try! NLUTensorflow(self, configuration: SpeechConfiguration())

    nlu.classify(utterance: "turn the lights on in the kitchen")

    func classification(result: NLUResult) {
        // Utilize the result intent and slot(s) as appropriate
    }

    func failure(error: Error) {
        // respond appropriately to an error in classification
    }

    func didTrace(_ trace: String) {
        // respond appropriately to a debug tracing message
    }

}
```

> assuming that `self` implements `NLUDelegate`.

Author: There's nothing to assume; you do it explicitly here.
